index.md, before:

---
title: "Hutchins Lab"
layout: default
---
{% include cfanalytics.html %}
| [Home](/index) | [Publications](/publications) | [People](/people) | [News](/news) |
| [Projects](/projects) | [Resources](/resources) | [About](/about) | [Faculty Page](https://ischool.wisc.edu/blog/staff/hutchins-b-ian/) |

# Welcome to the Hutchins Lab
*A member of the UW-Madison [Metascience Research Lab](https://www.metascience-lab.com/)*

Our research seeks to find ways to improve the research enterprise and accelerate biomedical research advances using quantitative analysis of information networks and machine learning. Prof. Hutchins previously worked as a data scientist at NIH, where he developed the iCite bibliometrics dashboard, along with many of its quantitative metrics and the NIH Open Citation Collection database. He also spearheaded the development of the NIH COVID-19 Portfolio to track and disseminate cutting-edge COVID-19 research in real time.

![Knowledge flow in a network of cancer immunotherapy publications](/assets/immunotherapy.gif "Knowledge flow in a network of breakthrough cancer immunotherapy publications. Credit, Ian Hutchins")

## Selected Publications
### [iCite profile](https://icite.od.nih.gov/analysis?search_id=75dxzqmnikoctf10)

Hutchins, B Ian. “A tipping point for open citation data.” Quantitative Science Studies vol. 2(2):00138 2021, doi: [10.1162/qss_c_00138](https://doi.org/10.1162/qss_c_00138) [PMID:34505061](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34505061/)

Hutchins, B Ian et al. “Predicting translational progress in biomedical research.” PLoS biology vol. 17,10 e3000416. 10 Oct. 2019 [doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.3000416](http://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.3000416) [PMID:31600189](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31600189/)

Hoppe, Travis A et al. “Topic choice contributes to the lower rate of NIH awards to African-American/black scientists.” Science advances vol. 5,10 eaaw7238. 9 Oct. 2019, [doi:10.1126/sciadv.aaw7238](http://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.aaw7238) [PMID:31633016](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31633016/)

Hutchins, B Ian et al. “The NIH Open Citation Collection: A public access, broad coverage resource.” PLoS biology vol. 17,10 e3000385. 10 Oct. 2019, [doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.3000385](http://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.3000385) [PMID:31600197](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31600197/)

Hutchins, B Ian et al. “Relative Citation Ratio (RCR): A New Metric That Uses Citation Rates to Measure Influence at the Article Level.” PLoS biology vol. 14,9 e1002541. 6 Sep. 2016, [doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.1002541](http://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.1002541) [PMID:27599104](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/27599104/)

Commit message:

Added projects and Nelson et al.

index.md, after:

---
title: "Hutchins Lab"
layout: default
---
{% include cfanalytics.html %}
| [Home](/index) | [Publications](/publications) | [People](/people) | [News](/news) |
| [Projects](/projects) | [Resources](/resources) | [About](/about) | [Faculty Page](https://ischool.wisc.edu/blog/staff/hutchins-b-ian/) |

# Welcome to the Hutchins Lab
*A member of the UW-Madison [Metascience Research Lab](https://www.metascience-lab.com/)*

We seek avenues to improve the research enterprise and accelerate biomedical research advances using quantitative analysis of information networks and machine learning. Prof. Hutchins previously worked as a data scientist at NIH, where he developed the iCite bibliometrics dashboard, along with many of its quantitative metrics and the NIH Open Citation Collection database. He also spearheaded the development of the NIH COVID-19 Portfolio to track and disseminate cutting-edge COVID-19 research in real time.

![Knowledge flow in a network of cancer immunotherapy publications](/assets/immunotherapy.gif "Knowledge flow in a network of breakthrough cancer immunotherapy publications. Credit, Ian Hutchins")

## Selected Publications
### [iCite profile](https://icite.od.nih.gov/analysis?search_id=75dxzqmnikoctf10)

Nelson, Lindsay et al. “Robustness of evidence reported in preprints during peer review”, 22 February 2022, (Version 1) available at Research Square doi: [10.21203/rs.3.rs-1344293/v1](https://doi.org/10.21203/rs.3.rs-1344293/v1)

Hutchins, B Ian. “A tipping point for open citation data.” Quantitative Science Studies vol. 2(2):00138 2021, doi: [10.1162/qss_c_00138](https://doi.org/10.1162/qss_c_00138) [PMID:34505061](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34505061/)

Hutchins, B Ian et al. “Predicting translational progress in biomedical research.” PLoS biology vol. 17,10 e3000416. 10 Oct. 2019 [doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.3000416](http://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.3000416) [PMID:31600189](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31600189/)

Hoppe, Travis A et al. “Topic choice contributes to the lower rate of NIH awards to African-American/black scientists.” Science advances vol. 5,10 eaaw7238. 9 Oct. 2019, [doi:10.1126/sciadv.aaw7238](http://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.aaw7238) [PMID:31633016](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31633016/)

Hutchins, B Ian et al. “The NIH Open Citation Collection: A public access, broad coverage resource.” PLoS biology vol. 17,10 e3000385. 10 Oct. 2019, [doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.3000385](http://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.3000385) [PMID:31600197](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31600197/)

Hutchins, B Ian et al. “Relative Citation Ratio (RCR): A New Metric That Uses Citation Rates to Measure Influence at the Article Level.” PLoS biology vol. 14,9 e1002541. 6 Sep. 2016, [doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.1002541](http://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.1002541) [PMID:27599104](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/27599104/)
